Marketing
An electric bike is basically a battery operated two wheeler with low cost of maintenance and zero pollution.In India, the concept of sustainable living and environment friendly living has been evolving from the past few years. The main drivers of brand perception for electric bikes are cost, features, range, pickup, maintenance, emotional satisfaction and social factors. India is a middle class driven country where the buying decision mainly depends on the cost and the value for money. Even though the electric motorcycle can reduce pollution and offer other host of features, the cost can offset of all of them. Unlike electric cars, the cost has been kept low by the companies for motrocycle market. So, the low cost etices the customer towars electric segment of two wheeelers. When comparing with oil fuelled vehicles, other key driver is pickup and top speed. People consider that these vehicles have relatively low pickup and speed compared to traditional petrol run engines. The cost of maintenance is another key driver in the purchase. With low cost of maintenance, electric motorcylces stand a better chance of consideration. Sustainable and environment consciousness also plays a crticial role with global warming and alarming rise of pollution levels. With the Government of India offering tax exemption for purchasing electric vehicles, the consumer perception has changed towards these vehicles. The electric vehicle market is still in nascent stage in India as manufacturers have not come up with a plethora of products yet. They have to work on developing technology, pickup, speed, range and efficiency.

Establishing and promoting a brand personality is important to get consumers excited. Consumers relate the brand to their personality and life style if they find similar traits in the product.The actual brand identity and perceived brand image are not usually syncronized and this creates a gap for the brand. For the brand to be successful, it is essential to identify and measure the gap between the brand identity and the perceived image. Let us construct and measure the gaps for the electric bike, MatterOne using the widely used brand prism tool. Once, the gaps are identified, we can propose measures to bridge those gaps and then cosntruct a brand and value position. 
First step in creating a brand is to define the physique. It is external face of the brand and communicates the brand to the world. Look and feel of the brand, specific traits and features which defines the brand it is are the most common ones to idenify the physisque. For MatteROne bike, we define physique as smart, youthful and dynamic.  
