NFA + Dc = C + R = H M
i down --> M up
NFA up  --> Exports up by depeciating curency


provider - cars

prodcuers

consumers

owner


external ineractions vs internal optimisation

resource ownership/control vs orchestration

network effects  same side cross side

Value - customer vs ecosystem

Multihoming

collective intelligence  Parallel paths

Disintermediation
**platforms all have an ecosystem with the same basic structure, comprising four types of players. The owners of platforms control their intellectual property and governance. Providers serve as the platforms’ interface with users. Producers create their offerings, and consumers use those offerings.
***Platform businesses bring together producers and consumers in high-value exchanges. Their chief assets are information and interactions, which together are also the source of the value they create and their competitive advantage.
***As the number of participants on each side grew, that value increased—a phenomenon called “network effects,” which is central to platform strategy.
***
The move from pipeline to platform involves three key shifts:

1. From resource control to resource orchestration.2. From internal optimization to external interaction.
3. From a focus on customer value to a focus on ecosystem value.
The Power of Network Effects

Products have features; platforms have communities, and those communities can be leveraged. Given Google’s relationship with consumers, the value its network provides them, and its interest in the internet of things, Siemens might have predicted the tech giant’s entry into the home-automation market (though not necessarily into thermostats). Second, a competitor may target an overlapping customer base with a distinctive new offering that leverages network effects. Airbnb’s and Uber’s challenges to the hotel and taxi industries fall into this category. The final pattern, in which platforms that collect the same type of data that your firm does suddenly go after your market, is still emerging. When a data set is valuable, but different parties control different chunks of it, competition between unlikely camps may ensue. This is happening in health care, where traditional providers, producers of wearables like Fitbit, and retail pharmacies like Walgreens are all launching platforms based on the health data they own. They can be expected to compete for control of a broader data set—and the consumer relationships that come with it.


